'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\"
.TH Tcl_ByteArrayObj 3 9.0 Tcl "Tcl Library Procedures"
.\" The -*- nroff -*- definitions below are for supplemental macros used
.\" in Tcl/Tk manual entries.
.\"
.\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
.\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
.\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
.\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
.\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
.\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
.\"
.\" .AS ?type? ?name?
.\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
.\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
.\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
.\"
.\" .BS
.\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
.\"	enclosed in one large box.
.\"
.\" .BE
.\"	End of box enclosure.
.\"
.\" .CS
.\"	Begin code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .CE
.\"	End code excerpt.
.\"
.\" .VS ?version? ?br?
.\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
.\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
.\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
.\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
.\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
.\"
.\" .VE
.\"	End of vertical sidebar.
.\"
.\" .DS
.\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .DE
.\"	End of indented unfilled display.
.\"
.\" .SO ?manpage?
.\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget. The manpage
.\"	argument defines where to look up the standard options; if
.\"	omitted, defaults to "options". The options follow on successive
.\"	lines, in three columns separated by tabs.
.\"
.\" .SE
.\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
.\"
.\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
.\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
.\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
.\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
.\"	the option's class in the option database.
.\"
.\" .UL arg1 arg2
.\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
.\"
.\" .QW arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally (for trailing punctuation).
.\"
.\" .PQ arg1 ?arg2?
.\"	Print an open parenthesis, arg1 in quotes, then arg2 normally
.\"	(for trailing punctuation) and then a closing parenthesis.
.\"
.\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
.\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1 \\fI\\$2\\fP (\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
.\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
.\"	# BS - start boxed text
.\"	# ^y = starting y location
.\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
.\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
.\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
.\"	# ^Y = starting y location
.\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
.\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
.\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
.\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
.\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
.\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
.\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
.\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
'ie '\\$1'' .ds So \\fBoptions\\fR
'el .ds So \\fB\\$1\\fR
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 5.5c 11c
.ft B
..
.\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\*(So manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
.\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
.\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
..
.\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
..
.\"	# UL - underline word
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.\"	# QW - apply quotation marks to word
.de QW
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\$2
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2
..
.\"	# PQ - apply parens and quotation marks to word
.de PQ
.ie '\\*(lq'"' (``\\$1''\\$2)\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el (\\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\$2)\\$3
..
.\"	# QR - quoted range
.de QR
.ie '\\*(lq'"' ``\\$1''\\-``\\$2''\\$3
.\"" fix emacs highlighting
.el \\*(lq\\$1\\*(rq\\-\\*(lq\\$2\\*(rq\\$3
..
.\"	# MT - "empty" string
.de MT
.QW ""
..
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_NewByteArrayObj, Tcl_SetByteArrayObj, Tcl_GetBytesFromObj, Tcl_GetByteArrayFromObj, Tcl_SetByteArrayLength \- manipulate a Tcl value as an array of bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
Tcl_Obj *
\fBTcl_NewByteArrayObj\fR(\fIbytes, numBytes\fR)
.sp
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, bytes, numBytes\fR)
.sp
.VS TIP568
unsigned char *
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR(\fIinterp, objPtr, numBytesPtr\fR)
.VE TIP568
.sp
unsigned char *
\fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR(\fIobjPtr, numBytesPtr\fR)
.sp
unsigned char *
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR(\fIobjPtr, numBytes\fR)
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS "const unsigned char" *numBytesPtr in/out
.AP "const unsigned char" *bytes in
The array of bytes used to initialize or set a byte-array value. May be NULL
even if \fInumBytes\fR is non-zero.
.AP Tcl_Size numBytes in
The number of bytes in the array.
.AP Tcl_Obj *objPtr in/out
For \fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR, this points to an unshared value to be
overwritten by a byte-array value.  For \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR,
\fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR and \fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR, this points
to the value from which to extract an array of bytes.
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter to use for error reporting.
.AP "Tcl_Size \&| int" *numBytesPtr out
Points to space where the number of bytes in the array may be written.
May be (Tcl_Size *)NULL when not used. If it points to a variable which
type is not \fBTcl_Size\fR, a compiler warning will be generated.
If your extensions is compiled with -DTCL_8_API, this function will return
NULL for byte arrays larger than INT_MAX (which should
trigger proper error-handling), otherwise expect it to crash.
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These routines are used to create, modify, store, transfer, and retrieve
arbitrary binary data in Tcl values.  Specifically, data that can be
represented as a sequence of arbitrary byte values is supported.
This includes data read from binary channels, values created by the
\fBbinary\fR command, encrypted data, or other information representable as
a finite byte sequence.
.PP
A byte is an 8-bit quantity with no inherent meaning.  When the 8 bits are
interpreted as an integer value, the range of possible values is (0-255).
The C type best suited to store a byte is the \fBunsigned char\fR.
An \fBunsigned char\fR array of size \fIN\fR stores an arbitrary binary
value of size \fIN\fR bytes.  We call this representation a byte-array.
Here we document the routines that allow us to operate on Tcl values as
byte-arrays.
.PP
All Tcl values must correspond to a string representation.
When a byte-array value must be processed as a string, the sequence
of \fIN\fR bytes is transformed into the corresponding sequence
of \fIN\fR characters, where each byte value transforms to the same
character codepoint value in the range (U+0000 - U+00FF).  Obtaining the
string representation of a byte-array value (by calling
\fBTcl_GetStringFromObj\fR) produces this string in Tcl's usual
Modified UTF-8 encoding.
.PP
\fBTcl_NewByteArrayObj\fR and \fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR
create a new value or overwrite an existing unshared value, respectively,
to hold a byte-array value of \fInumBytes\fR bytes.  When a caller
passes a non-NULL value of \fIbytes\fR, it must point to memory from
which \fInumBytes\fR bytes can be read.  These routines
allocate \fInumBytes\fR bytes of memory, copy \fInumBytes\fR
bytes from \fIbytes\fR into it, and keep the result in the internal
representation of the new or overwritten value.
When the caller passes a NULL value of \fIbytes\fR, the data copying
step is skipped, and the bytes stored in the value are undefined.
A \fIbytes\fR value of NULL is useful only when the caller will arrange
to write known contents into the byte-array through a pointer retrieved
by a call to one of the routines explained below.  \fBTcl_NewByteArrayObj\fR
returns a pointer to the created value with a reference count of zero.
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR overwrites and invalidates any old contents
of the unshared \fIobjPtr\fR as appropriate, and keeps its reference
count (0 or 1) unchanged.  The value produced by these routines has no
string representation.  Any memory allocation failure may cause a panic.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR performs the opposite function of
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR, providing access to read a byte-array from
a Tcl value that was previously written into it.  When \fIobjPtr\fR
is a value previously produced by \fBTcl_NewByteArrayObj\fR or
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR, then \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR returns
a pointer to the byte-array kept in the value's internal representation.
If the caller provides a non-NULL value for \fInumBytesPtr\fR, it must
point to memory where \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR can write the number
of bytes in the value's internal byte-array.  With both pieces of
information, the caller is able to retrieve any information about the
contents of that byte-array that it seeks.  When \fIobjPtr\fR does
not already contain an internal byte-array, \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR
will try to create one from the value's string representation.  Any
string value that does not include any character codepoints outside
the range (U+0000 - U+00FF) will successfully translate to a unique
byte-array value.  With the created byte-array, the routine returns
as before.  For any string representation which does contain
a forbidden character codepoint, the conversion fails, and
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR returns NULL to signal that failure.  On
failure, nothing will be written to \fInumBytesPtr\fR, and if
the \fIinterp\fR argument is non-NULL, then error messages and
codes are left in it recording the error.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR performs exactly the same function as
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR does when called with the \fIinterp\fR
argument passed the value NULL.  This is incompatible with the
way \fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR functioned in Tcl 8.
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR is the more capable interface and should
usually be favored for use over \fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR.
.PP
On success, both \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR and \fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR
return a pointer into the internal representation of a \fBTcl_Obj\fR.
That pointer must not be freed by the caller, and should not be retained
for use beyond the known time the internal representation of the value
has not been disturbed.  The pointer may be used to overwrite the byte
contents of the internal representation, so long as the value is unshared
and any string representation is invalidated.
.PP
On success, both \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR and \fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR
write the number of bytes in the byte-array value of \fIobjPtr\fR
to the space pointed to by \fInumBytesPtr\fR.  This space may be of type
\fBTcl_Size\fR or of type \fBint\fR.  It is recommended that callers provide
a \fBTcl_Size\fR space for this purpose.  If the caller provides only
an \fBint\fR space and the number of bytes in the byte-array value of
\fIobjPtr\fR is greater than \fBINT_MAX\fR, the routine will fail due
to being unable to correctly report the byte-array size to the caller.
The ability to provide an \fBint\fR space is best considered a migration
aid for codebases constrained to continue operating with Tcl releases
older than 9.0.
.PP
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR enables a caller to change the size of a
byte-array in the internal representation of an unshared \fIobjPtr\fR to
become \fInumBytes\fR bytes.  This is most often useful after the
bytes of the internal byte-array have been directly overwritten and it
has been discovered that the required size differs from the first
estimate used in the allocation. \fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR returns
a pointer to the resized byte-array.  Because resizing the byte-array
changes the internal representation, \fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR
also invalidates any string representation in \fIobjPtr\fR.  If resizing
grows the byte-array, the new byte values are undefined.  If \fIobjPtr\fR
does not already possess an internal byte-array, one is produced in the
same way that \fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR does, also returning NULL
when any characters of the value in \fIobjPtr\fR (up to
\fInumBytes\fR of them) are not valid bytes.
.SH "REFERENCE COUNT MANAGEMENT"
.PP
\fBTcl_NewByteArrayObj\fR always returns a zero-reference object, much
like \fBTcl_NewObj\fR.
.PP
\fBTcl_SetByteArrayObj\fR and \fBTcl_SetByteArrayLength\fR do not modify the
reference count of their \fIobjPtr\fR arguments, but do require that the
object be unshared.
.PP
\fBTcl_GetBytesFromObj\fR and \fBTcl_GetByteArrayFromObj\fR do not modify
the reference count of \fIobjPtr\fR; they only read.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Tcl_GetStringFromObj, Tcl_NewObj, Tcl_IncrRefCount, Tcl_DecrRefCount

.SH KEYWORDS
value, binary data, byte array, utf, unicode
